I live in my own mind, furnished by what I know and what I fear and what I love. - Ursula K. Le Guin
Solitude is the place of purification. - Martin Buber
I had to learn to be alone before I could learn to be with anyone. - Anaïs Nin
In solitude, the mind gains strength and learns to lean upon itself. - Laurence Sterne
I find it wholesome to be alone the greater part of the time. To be in company, even with the best, is soon wearisome and dissipating. I love to be alone. - Henry David Thoreau
The eternal quest of the individual human being is to shatter his loneliness. - Norman Cousins
She had always been comfortable with silence. What others heard as emptiness, she heard as possibility. - Marilynne Robinson
Within my solitude I found what I could not find in the world: myself. - Clarissa Pinkola Estés
Loneliness is the poverty of self; solitude is the richness of self. - May Sarton
I restore myself when I'm alone. - Marilyn Monroe
Whosoever is delighted in solitude is either a wild beast or a god. - Francis Bacon (after Aristotle)
I was never less alone than when by myself. - Edward Gibbon
The soul that sees beauty may sometimes walk alone. - Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
The threshold is not the beginning of a journey. It is the place where a journey becomes real. - Gaston Bachelard
I needed to be by the sea. I needed to hear waves breaking and feel the smallness of my own body in the presence of something immense. - Roxane Gay
An empty house is not the absence of something. It is the presence of a great deal. - Virginia Woolf
In the end, the only shelter that cannot be taken from you is the one you build inside yourself. - Toni Morrison
Solitude sometimes is best society. - John Milton
A blessed interval — the space between the last thing said and the next thing required. - Mary Oliver
She went to the island the way other women go to church: for the silence, and the certainty that nothing would ask anything of her there. - Barbara Kingsolver
There is a solitude, even in the heart of cities, that the lonely one learns to carry like a lamp. - Rainer Maria Rilke
The secret of a full life is to live and relate to others as if they might not be there tomorrow. - Anaïs Nin
Double, double toil and trouble; fire burn and cauldron bubble. - William Shakespeare
When shall we three meet again in thunder, lightning, or in rain? - William Shakespeare
I am no bird; and no net ensnares me: I am a free human being with an independent will. - Charlotte Brontë
She had studied the art for a very long time, which is to say that she had studied herself. - Angela Carter
A witch is one who chooses to know. And having chosen, bears the weight of knowing. - Ursula K. Le Guin
The witch knows what the priest only suspects. - Zora Neale Hurston
They called it witchcraft. I called it learning what my body already knew. - Clarissa Pinkola Estés
To name a thing is to own it. This is the first magic. - N.K. Jemisin
I have crossed oceans of time to find you. I have walked through fire. - Bram Stoker
All magic comes with a price. - Angela Carter
Is it possible that things are not what they seem? But of course! That is the first condition of magic. - Jorge Luis Borges
A woman with knowledge is dangerous. A woman with ancient knowledge is terrifying. A woman who knows what she knows and acts upon it — she is a force of nature. - bell hooks
She brewed her sorrow down to something potent. Then she used it. - Sylvia Plath
What the wise woman cannot speak aloud, she writes in smoke and cinder. - Toni Morrison
The hand that stirs the cauldron may as well write the laws. - Margaret Atwood
Every woman is a witch who has been persuaded to forget her spells. - Clarissa Pinkola Estés
To practice any art, however well or badly, is a way to make your soul grow. So do it. - Kurt Vonnegut
She had learned that the truly powerful need not shout. A whisper, placed correctly, can fell kingdoms. - Ursula K. Le Guin
Magic is just science that we don't understand yet. - Arthur C. Clarke
The oldest stories are always about women who knew too much and were punished for it. - Carmen Maria Machado
Do not read. They told her. Do not learn. Do not name. She read. She learned. She named everything she saw. - Madeline Miller
I know the craft. I know what words are necessary and which ones are waste. I know how to make a thing stay. - Toni Morrison
Whatever our souls are made of, his and mine are the same. - Emily Brontë
I have waited for this child. And I know that I would give up everything — all of it — to keep it. - Toni Morrison
To love another person is to see the face of God. - Victor Hugo
Love is not love which alters when it alteration finds. - William Shakespeare
I would rather spend one lifetime with you than face all the ages of this world alone. - J.R.R. Tolkien
The most radical thing a woman can do is choose a finite life over an infinite one, because it means she has chosen love. - Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
She gave up immortality the way other women give up their names: quietly, and with her whole heart. - Anne Carson
To love is to choose to be mortal. Everything else is just existing. - Ursula K. Le Guin
How do I love thee? Let me count the ways. I love thee to the depth and breadth and height my soul can reach. - Elizabeth Barrett Browning
The giving of love is an education in itself. - Eleanor Roosevelt
I am not afraid of being hurt. I am afraid of never having tried to love at all. - James Baldwin
We loved with a love that was more than love. - Edgar Allan Poe
Love is the longing for the half of ourselves we have lost. - Milan Kundera
What is done for love is beyond good and evil. - Friedrich Nietzsche
She let herself become particular. That is the sacrifice. To be one thing, in one place, at one time, for one person. - Mary Oliver
I have been faithful to thee, Cynara! in my fashion. - Ernest Dowson
I carry your heart with me. I carry it in my heart. - E.E. Cummings
To fall in love with God is the greatest of all romances; to seek God is the greatest of all adventures; to find God is the greatest human achievement — but to love a mortal is the only act of genuine courage. - Raphael Simon (attr.)
The price of anything is the amount of life you exchange for it. - Henry David Thoreau
I would have chosen you in any life. I would have walked through every darkness to reach you. - Ocean Vuong
Love does not claim possession, but gives freedom. - Rabindranath Tagore
Even the gods, if they love something truly, can be made into mortals by that love. - Ovid
To make anything is to find out what you know. - Ursula K. Le Guin
The purpose of art is to lay bare the questions that have been hidden by the answers. - James Baldwin
A woman must have money and a room of her own if she is to write fiction. - Virginia Woolf
Art is not what you see, but what you make others see. - Edgar Degas
Making is the most honest form of argument: you cannot fake a thing that works. - Ursula K. Le Guin
I write entirely to find out what I'm thinking, what I'm looking at, what I see and what it means. - Joan Didion
I need to create in order to know that I have been here. That I have left some trace. - Sylvia Plath
The act of creation is the act of survival. - Audre Lorde
Weaving is not decoration. Weaving is a language. The loom speaks whether you want it to or not. - Sandra Cisneros
When you make something, you are not just making the thing. You are making yourself. - Annie Dillard
Creativity is not the finding of a thing, but the making something out of it after it is found. - James Russell Lowell
She knew the work was finished not when she could add no more, but when she could take nothing away. - Toni Morrison
Every piece of work carries the fingerprint of the maker. This is not a flaw. This is the signature. - Annie Dillard
The hand remembers what the mind has forgotten. - Kim Stanley Robinson
An idle hand is a dangerous thing. A skilled hand is a weapon. - Ntozake Shange
Let the beauty we love be what we do. - Rumi
She had learned to spin, to weave, to dye, to build — all the arts that are the province of the woman who will not be managed. - Clarissa Pinkola Estés
A craft perfected in private becomes a power exercised in public. - Colm Tóibín
The most important things are the hardest to say, because words diminish them. But the things made from them — the stories, the songs, the objects — keep the feeling alive. - Stephen King
Nothing is more important than this one day — this one piece of work — done well. - Gwendolyn Brooks
I write because I don't know what I think until I read what I say. - Flannery O'Connor
All artists are magicians. They make the impossible real and the real impossible. - Salman Rushdie
I am no man. - J.R.R. Tolkien
They were not bowed, these women. They were merely waiting. - Toni Morrison
A woman who does not obey is not a fallen woman. She is a free one. - Gloria Steinem
I am not a possession. I am not a story told about me by others. I am the one who tells. - Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
Well-behaved women seldom make history. - Laurel Thatcher Ulrich
The master's tools will never dismantle the master's house. - Audre Lorde
A woman should know how to look like a fool and act like one when it suits her. That is not the same as being one. - Rebecca Solnit
I am not a metaphor. I am a woman who has eaten her father's rules and spit out bones. - Ntozake Shange
They thought they were burying her. They did not know she was a seed. - Dinos Christianopoulos (attr.)
The most common way people give up their power is by thinking they don't have any. - Alice Walker
She was not built for silence. She was built for the word no one else would say. - Lucille Clifton
I would rather be a rebel than a slave. - Emmeline Pankhurst
The day I took back my name was the day I became myself. - Sandra Cisneros
She had learned young that if she smiled while she defied them, they never quite believed she was dangerous until it was too late. - N.K. Jemisin
I am a forest, and a night of dark trees: but he who is not afraid of my darkness, will find banks full of roses under my cypresses. - Friedrich Nietzsche
The woman who follows the crowd will usually go no further than the crowd. The woman who walks alone is likely to find herself in places no one has ever been. - Albert Einstein (attr.)
Disobedience, in the eyes of anyone who has read history, is man's original virtue. - Oscar Wilde
I am the daughter of a revolution. I am not asking permission. - Assata Shakur
She is too fond of books, and it has turned her brain — so they said. She kept reading. - Louisa May Alcott
My father did not know what I was until I showed him. And then it was too late to unmake me. - Seamus Heaney
I will not be broken into something small enough to be comfortable. - Roxane Gay
No woman is required to build the world by destroying herself. - Rabbi Sofer (attr.)
I am not afraid of storms, for I am learning how to sail my ship. - Louisa May Alcott
She was a woman who knew her own mind. This was considered a dangerous quality. - Margaret Atwood
There is no force more powerful in this world than a woman who knows what she wants. - Beyoncé (attr.)
I am my own muse. I am the subject I know best. The subject I want to better. - Frida Kahlo
Think like a queen. A queen is not afraid to fail. Failure is another stepping stone to greatness. - Oprah Winfrey
She was powerful not because she wasn't scared but because she went on so strongly, despite the fear. - Atticus (Nick Tumminello, attr.)
I have learned over the years that when one's mind is made up, this diminishes fear; knowing what must be done does away with fear. - Rosa Parks
I know my worth. I've paid dearly for every ounce of it. - Alfa
Above all, be the heroine of your life, not the victim. - Nora Ephron
She wore her femininity like armor: not to protect herself from the world, but to remind it that she was here. - Roxane Gay
A woman who knows her power does not need to raise her voice. She has already changed the air in the room. - Toni Morrison
I am a woman phenomenally. Phenomenal woman, that's me. - Maya Angelou
Pretty women wonder where my secret lies. I'm not cute or built to suit a fashion model's size. - Maya Angelou
I am not lucky. You know what I am? I am smart, I am talented, I take advantage of the opportunities that come my way and I work really, really hard. Don't call me lucky. Call me a badass. - Shonda Rhimes
The thing women have yet to learn is nobody gives you power. You just take it. - Roseanne Barr
She had the kind of beauty that does not diminish but grows with age, with suffering, with refusal to diminish. - Colm Tóibín
I am not a tragedy. I am a woman. These are not the same thing. - Carmen Maria Machado
Strength is not the absence of softness. The sea is soft and it can split a stone. - Clarissa Pinkola Estés
A woman in full possession of herself is the most dangerous thing in any mythology. - Mary Oliver
She contained multitudes, and she was not ashamed of any of them. - Walt Whitman (adapted)
I am not bossy. I am the boss. - Beyoncé
I am large, I contain multitudes. - Walt Whitman
There is another world, but it is in this one. - Paul Éluard
In the depth of winter, I finally learned that within me there lay an invincible summer. - Albert Camus
The unexamined life is not worth living. - Socrates
Until you make the unconscious conscious, it will direct your life and you will call it fate. - C.G. Jung
What is hidden in snow comes forth in the thaw. - Finnish proverb
The surface is not the story. The story is the thing that lives underneath. - Toni Morrison
She had the same quality as still water: she looked calm, but the depth was immeasurable, and something moved in it. - Marilynne Robinson
There are things known and things unknown and in between are the doors. - Jim Morrison (attr. William Blake)
I am not what happened to me. I am what I choose to become. - C.G. Jung
Man cannot remake himself without suffering, for he is both the marble and the sculptor. - Alexis Carrel
All that I am, or hope to be, I owe to my angel mother. And to the darkness she never let me see. - variation on Lincoln
We do not grow absolutely, chronologically. We grow sometimes in one dimension, and not in another; unevenly. - Anaïs Nin
What lies beneath the surface is not always threatening. Sometimes it is waiting to be found. - Gaston Bachelard
I am the poem that cannot be finished, the equation without a solution, the door that opens onto another door. - Sylvia Plath
Some people's lives seem to flow in a narrative; mine had many stops and starts. That's what trauma does. - Oprah Winfrey
To look closely at a woman is to look at the history of her endurance. - bell hooks
She kept the important parts of herself like a secret garden: accessible only through a gate that she alone could open. - Frances Hodgson Burnett (adapted)
I am the sum of what I have loved and what I have survived. - Roxane Gay
The most interesting things about a person are the things they almost said. - Joan Didion
Every face conceals a labyrinth. Most people are afraid to enter. - Jorge Luis Borges
I do not exist to be known. I exist to know. - Ursula K. Le Guin
I am not the same woman I was yesterday. That is not a loss. That is the work. - Audre Lorde
We do not escape into philosophy, psychology, and art — we go there to restore our shattered selves into whole ones. - Anaïs Nin
You do not have to be good. You do not have to walk on your knees for a hundred miles through the desert, repenting. - Mary Oliver
What I am is a question I answer daily. - Lucille Clifton
I thought I would die before I became who I was supposed to be. I was wrong in the best way. - Ocean Vuong
The caterpillar does not become the butterfly by wanting to. She becomes it by ceasing to be the caterpillar. - Clarissa Pinkola Estés
I no longer force things. What flows flows. What crashes crashes. I am not afraid. - Juansen Dizon
She shed the old life the way a snake sheds skin: all at once, and then she was cold and clean and new. - Toni Morrison
To change one's life: start immediately. Do it flamboyantly. No exceptions. - William James
Metamorphosis is grief made visible. Grief made beautiful. - Ovid
I will not be the person I was made to be. I will be the person I make myself to be. - Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
Not all those who wander are lost. - J.R.R. Tolkien
Refusing is not passivity. Refusal is a form of speech. - Rebecca Solnit
She changed her mind. This was considered a betrayal. She considered it a beginning. - Margaret Atwood
People don't change — they reveal who they always were. Or they do the harder thing, which is become who they meant to be. - James Baldwin
For a long time now I have tried simply to write the best I can. Sometimes I have good luck and write better than I can. - Ernest Hemingway
The phoenix must burn to emerge. - Janet Fitch
What we call the beginning is often the end. And to make an end is to make a beginning. - T.S. Eliot
I am learning to abandon the world before it can abandon me. Anyone who has lost something they thought was theirs forever finally comes to realize that nothing really belongs to them. - Paulo Coelho
There is no secret to becoming. There is only the willingness to stop being what you were. - Ursula K. Le Guin
To refuse the life you were handed is not ingratitude. It is art. - Adrienne Rich
Stone walls do not a prison make, nor iron bars a cage. - Richard Lovelace
I saw my life branching out before me like the green fig tree in the story. I saw myself sitting in the crotch of this fig tree, starving to death. - Sylvia Plath
Out of the dark earth came the most terrible flowers. - Mary Oliver
She made of her exile a kind of kingdom. - Colm Tóibín
The desert tried to kill her. She planted a garden. - Rebecca Solnit
A room of one's own is not a luxury. It is the first condition of thought. - Virginia Woolf
The prison became her monastery. She learned there what no freedom could have taught her. - Rainer Maria Rilke
Constraint is the mother of ingenuity. The blank page offers too much. The cage focuses the mind. - Annie Dillard
She could not leave, so she learned every inch of the territory until it surrendered its secrets to her. - Toni Morrison
Exiles are some of the most rooted people in the world. What they carry, no one can take. - Edward Said
This was her place. Not by birth, not by choice, but by the alchemy of having survived it. - Marilynne Robinson
I have been in places so dark that even the memory of light felt like a lie. And I came back. That is not survival. That is mastery. - Lucille Clifton
What breaks us is not always what kills us. Sometimes it is what makes us. - Clarissa Pinkola Estés
She took the place they gave her and turned it into a country. - Adrienne Rich
To live in a world made by others is one thing. To transform that world into something that sustains you is the real life's work. - bell hooks
The bird in the cage sings. This is not evidence of happiness. This is evidence of the soul's refusal to be silenced. - Maya Angelou
I caged myself once. But I decorated every bar. - Mary Oliver
In my cell, I learned the grammar of my freedom. - Nelson Mandela (attr.)
She transformed the place of her punishment into the place of her power. That is not metaphor. That is sorcery. - Carmen Maria Machado
Even in a small room, an imagination can travel to the ends of the earth. - Gaston Bachelard
I lived inside a narrow life for years. I planted the whole universe in it. - Willa Cather
I will not have it forgotten. That is my work: to refuse forgetting. - Toni Morrison
To bear witness is to take a side. There is no neutral place to stand. - Elie Wiesel
We are the stories we tell about ourselves, and the stories we cannot yet tell. - Ursula K. Le Guin
The living carry the dead. This is not a burden. This is a privilege. - Colum McCann
Memory is the mother of all wisdom. - Aeschylus
To forget is a form of murder. - Elie Wiesel
She remembered so the others wouldn't have to. She carried it so it would not be lost. - Marilynne Robinson
History is written by the victors. But someone has always been keeping the other record. - Howard Zinn
The past is not dead. It is not even past. - William Faulkner
I have a duty to speak the truth as I see it and to share not just my triumphs, not just the things that felt good, but the pain, the intense, often unmitigated pain. - Audre Lorde
If you want to understand today, you have to search yesterday. - Pearl S. Buck
The world is kept alive only by heretics. - Emile Zola
She was the last one who remembered it the right way. And she would not let herself die until she had given the memory to someone else. - Toni Morrison
The telling of stories is itself an act of preservation. To listen is to become an archive. - Leslie Marmon Silko
I did not ask to be the keeper of these things. But I am, and so I keep them. - Anne Carson
Witness: it is not a passive position. To see and remember and refuse to look away — this is the highest form of courage. - James Baldwin
Our lives are not our own. We are bound to others, past and present, and by each crime and every kindness, we birth our future. - David Mitchell
Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life? - Mary Oliver
There is no greater agony than bearing an untold story inside you. - Maya Angelou
What is remembered lives. - Starhawk
The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice — but only if someone keeps watching. - Theodore Parker (adapted by MLK)
She watched. She remembered. She held the names of those who had been erased and she said them in the dark, alone, like prayers. - N.K. Jemisin
Beauty is the beginning of terror. - Rainer Maria Rilke
The uncanny is the familiar estranged. The beloved world, made suddenly and slightly wrong. - Sigmund Freud (adapted)
She had a way of walking that made you wonder what she knew that you didn't. - Toni Morrison
Something there is that doesn't love a wall — that something was her. - Robert Frost (adapted)
There are places in this world that carry magic the way old wood carries smoke: invisibly, permanently, irreversibly. - Ursula K. Le Guin
The garden looked ordinary. But it was not an ordinary garden. - Frances Hodgson Burnett
She was not beautiful in the way of paintings. She was beautiful in the way of weather. - Willa Cather
Her eyes were the color of something I had no name for, and when she looked at me I understood that I had been looked at before by no one. - Jorge Luis Borges
Terror and beauty inhabit the same house. That is why we cannot look away. - Anne Carson
The sea is a witch: she changes everything she touches. And she touches everything. - Clarice Lispector
What she had was not glamour in the commercial sense. What she had was the quality of being completely, dangerously real. - Angela Carter
Some women are lost in the fire. Some women are built from it. - Michelle Hodkin
Strange is often only another word for unfamiliar. Unfamiliar is often only another word for not yet understood. - Ursula K. Le Guin
The sublime is always a little frightening. That is how you know it is real. - Edmund Burke (adapted)
She was one of those rare people whose strangeness was a form of beauty. - Donna Tartt
To be enchanted is to be half-awake and wholly alive. - Robin Wall Kimmerer
The fairy tale is the story we tell to explain the darkness without being destroyed by it. - Angela Carter
Witchcraft is not darkness. Witchcraft is the willingness to see in the dark. - Clarissa Pinkola Estés
She was eerie the way a beautiful place is eerie: the beauty did not cancel the dread, and the dread did not cancel the beauty. - Carmen Maria Machado
There is a wildness at the heart of things that we name beautiful because we have no better word for what it does to us. - Robin Wall Kimmerer
I have seen things of great strangeness and I have found them lovely. Let no one call that ignorance. - Mary Oliver
The moon doesn't ask permission to be beautiful and strange. She simply is. Study her. - Clarissa Pinkola Estés
I am out with lanterns, looking for myself. - Emily Dickinson
The sea is another country, and I have always lived near the water. - Toni Morrison
Tell all the truth but tell it slant — success in circuit lies. - Emily Dickinson
I took a deep breath and listened to the old brag of my heart: I am, I am, I am. - Sylvia Plath
The silence was enormous. She had made it herself, and she lived inside it like a pearl. - Marilynne Robinson
These are the conditions: salt water and patience and the willingness to wait in the dark. - Mary Oliver
She was not a storm. She was the silence after the storm, when everything that was not bolted down had already been carried away. - Joan Didion
There is always some madness in love. But there is also always some reason in madness. - Friedrich Nietzsche
I have lived on the lip of insanity, wanting to know reasons, knocking on a door. It opens. I've been knocking from the inside. - Rumi
Where have all the witches gone? They are here. They have always been here. - Starhawk
Something woke the world that night. Something woke in her. - N.K. Jemisin
The herbs knew her. She had learned to let them. - Barbara Kingsolver
I think the sea is a useless teacher, pitching and falling no matter the weather, when you drive a wooden wedge into her open face she winks and takes it. - Anne Carson
The island gave nothing that was not earned. But it held nothing back once you had earned it. - Ursula K. Le Guin
She had the patience of tides. Those who did not understand patience called it rage. - Audre Lorde
What can I say — some women are that way. Born knowing how to burn without being consumed. - Zora Neale Hurston
In the evening, when the light fails and the shapes of things become ambiguous, the world is closest to what it really is. - Gaston Bachelard
She did not chase the stars. She waited. The stars came to her. - Clarice Lispector
I have wasted my life. I think I'll live here now, in the darkness at the bottom of my regrets, making roses. - James Wright (adapted)
Here is the world. Beautiful and terrible things will happen. Don't be afraid. - Frederick Buechner
There will come a time when you believe everything is finished; that will be the beginning. - Louis L'Amour
She knew the names of all the plants and what they wanted. This is not a small thing. - Robin Wall Kimmerer
Everything in this world is hungry. She had learned to be hungrier. - Carmen Maria Machado
I have always felt that the moment when first you wake up in the morning is the most wonderful of the twenty-four hours. No matter how weary or dreary you may feel, you possess the certainty that, during the day that lies before you, absolutely anything may happen. - Monica Baldwin